# Evaluation of Traffic Sign Classification Algorithms Utilizing Deep Neural Network Structures

## Introduction
This repository is the final snapshot of code to my experimentation with Deep Neural Network structures that were performed with the intention to classify traffic signs given by the GTSRB (German Traffic Sign Recognition Benchmarking) data set. This work is part of my final examination of an university course I did as a part of my Master's study. It is provided in the hope that it is useful to some (particularly those that are interested in such topics) but, of course, without any warranty or liability (sees the License section at the end of this readme). Also, keep in mind that, due to the very extensive experimentation I performed, that there may be some commented out or dead code here and there. If you are bothered by it, feel free to just delete it for yourself.

## Notes and Requirements
In order to run the code included in this repository, you will 
need to following software:

- Python 3
- Scikit-learn
- Scikit-image
- Keras 3
- KerasTuner
- Tensorflow

You can find the code in the folder `code_and_data`. The paper that was created as a part of the work is not included here yet due to copyright reasons. However, I aim to also include this here later once issues concering this are solved. Additionally, because the data generated by the models are too large to upload, only the most recent results (i.e. the `.keras` files and the Jupyter notebooks as well as some text files) are included.

Since I could not elaborate upon the licensing terms of the data set itself, I decided to exclude from this repository. Hence, to run the code here for yourself, you need to download the data sets at https://benchmark.ini.rub.de/gtsrb_dataset.html#Downloads.

The directory structure that the preprocessing scripts expects is described in the Python script `preprocess_datasets.py`. This is the script performing the preprocessing that will generate the `.npz`-Files that the models will load upon execution. Extract the training and testing data sets accordingly and execute this script. Then, you can run the individual models.

Note that the project folders of KerasTuner for the best model are still in here. If you want to find some parameters yourself, delete these first and then run the models a couple of times. Save the results and the project folders that KerasTuner created into some subfolder (i.e. `results_hyperparameters`) for each run. Then, select the best parameters and copy the corresponding project folder back. You can then run the model(s) a couple of times more and collect the results to derive some meaningful statistics of the performance of the model.

## License
The software and the results provided within this repository are licensed under the terms of the modified 3 clause BSD license. You can find the terms below and in the file `LICENSE.txt` provided withing the root directory of this distribution.

<blockquote>
Copyright 2024 Leon Maurice Adam

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

1.  Redistributions in source code must retain the accompanying
    copyright notice, this list of conditions, and the following
    disclaimer.

2.  Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the accompanying
    copyright notice, this list of conditions, and the following
    disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
    with the distribution.

3.  Names of the copyright holders must not be used to endorse or
    promote products derived from this software without prior
    written permission from the copyright holders.

4.  If any files are modified, you must cause the modified files to
    carry prominent notices stating that you changed the files and
    the date of any change.

Disclaimer

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS ``AS IS'' AND
  ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
  TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
  PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
  HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
  EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
  TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
  DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON
  ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR
  TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF
  THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
  SUCH DAMAGE.
</blockquote>